# Graph Neural Networks for Code Smells Detection

## Abstract

Code smells can reveal deep underlying issues in the source code and are often remnants of poor design and implementation of software systems which can lead to issues pertaining to software maintenance and evolution in the future if not detected and refactored on time. Software systems have become increasingly convoluted in the recent years and hence to aid them, the process of software development has also changed drastically, making it more collaborative and distributed across the domain. Adaption of agile based methodology in software development process has expedited the course of making changes to the source code and releasing it to the end user, which further aggravates the need to identify and refactor the source code using code smells. To alleviate this issue, we propose a novel language agnostic approach that uses Graph Neural Network for Code Smell Detection from the source code. During the course of this project we got to experiment with two graph construction methods, Unique Token Construction and Index Focused Construction, to convert code to graphs enabling language-agnostic processing of source code. By utilizing a GNN for classification, these graphs were able to identify class and method specific code smells with promising results. Although more work is needed in the future, these findings offer a promising solution for code smell detection. We believe this paper can be the right step in the direction of having deep learning based language agnostic tools for code smell detection.